# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis
Relational Database-SQL

## Analysis and Findings
### The Pewlett-Hackard company expressed concerned about employee turnover due to retirements in the near future. Due to a prior analysis they were surprised that a significant amount of their work force would soon meet retirement age.  Inspired by the Sales and Development departments, the company would like to develop a companywide mentorship program. In order to make this dream a reality, the company made two requests: discover the number of employees eligible for retirement by title and create a list of employees eligible for the mentorship program.

### For this assignment, I attempted to make it as painless as possible, as a lot of ground work was already laid a week before. Instead of returning completely to the original six tables, tables from the week 7 analysis were also utilized.  I choose to use a table entitled "current_emp", this table was chosen because it is a calculation of people who are eligible for retirement, but still working at the company.  Deliverable one asked for three tables to be created.  Table one (modified_titles_retiring) required the use of three sets of code before arriving at the final table. The codes required two INNER JOINs to be used twice as three tables with a common header were combined to create a final table tailored to answer the question.  A special partition code was added to eliminate duplication of employee names as several employees have held different titles while employed at the company.  On table 2 (no_ret_emp_per_title) a simple count was conducted utilizing table one, the number of employees were COUNTed and GROUP BY title type. Table 3 (new_cur_emp_list) also utilized table one, for this table we refined the list to meet the specified WHERE birthdate range of between 1952-01-01 and 1955-12-31 for inclusion. Deliverable 2 required the creation of a table (new_ment_group) to determine employees eligible to participate in a companywide mentorship program due to their future retirement eligibility. To ensure we are using the most accurate information we utilized the final table from deliverable one and INNER JOINed it with the Titles and Employees tables on emp_no and narrowed using WHERE to persons born between 1952-01-01 and 1955-12-31 for inclusion. 

### Data analysis shows that the Pewlett-Hackard company has excellent employee retention and is a place where upward mobility in the company is possible. The utilization of partition twice is seen as a limitation. The company should consider creating a table to house the last held title of each employee.  Though several employees are eligible for retirement, how many would really consider retiring? The company should examine retirement trends in their industry to determine if age is an accurate measure.  In addition to a mentorship program, Pewlett-Hackard needs to develop a recruitment strategy and determine if the supply is available to replace their aging employees.
